Hi Nicky, great to see you again.
I have an important
question I need to ask.
>> Hi, Prashan.
What is that?
>> So over the last few weeks,
we have added all these calculations and
Named Ranges.
But now, let's say, I add another
transaction at the bottom of the data.
I don't want to have to manually
update all the Named Ranges and
copy down the formulas.
Are we going to look at
a way of automating this?
>> That is exactly the right question.
And I'm sure a lot of our learners
are wondering the same thing.
For efficiency and correctness, this
process definitely needs to be automated.
Now, some organizations will
use macros to do this, but
macros come with their own problems.
So we're going to look at a far superior
and simpler solution called a table.
And that's what this week is all about.
>> Tables are one of my
favorite features in Excel, but
the name may be a bit confusing to
people who haven't used them before,
because a spreadsheet looks a lot like
a table with columns rows and cells.
So how would you explain the difference?
>> Well,
although Excel provides a grid layout for
us to work in, this is called a range.
It's not structured way of storing data.
We can put any information anywhere, and
they do not need to be related in any way.
When we talk about a table in Excel,
we mean more like a database table,
which contains a set of related
information, like all our HR data.
>> In other words, each column in
a table holds one type of information,
like the employee ID, and
each row represents one record.
For example, all the information
about one particular staff member.
>> Yeah, that's exactly right.
>> The problem with databases is they
can be quite complex to work with.
Are we going to find tables as complex?
>> Actually, quite the opposite,
one of the reasons we work with tables in
Excel is they make it much
easier to work with our data.
>> Can you just give us some examples?
>> Well,
you'll see this in the practice videos.
Tables are very easy to create.
And once your data is in a table,
it becomes much easier to format,
select, and even sort and filter.
They also offer the opportunity
to add a total row where you
literally put a row at the bottom.
You can just, from a drop-down,
pick the operation you want, and
it will do the calculation for you.
So it's really cool.
>> And can you perform
calculations with data in tables,
like you would in a normal range?
>> Yeah, I mean, a table,
you can continue to work
with your data in a table exactly
as you would in a normal range.
But you will find the formulas do look
slightly different, because tables use yet
another form of referencing
calleds "structured referencing".
>> Are structured references
a bit like named ranges?
>> Yeah, conceptually, they're very
similar, but they use square brackets.
So they look a little bit different, and
they aren't absolute like Named Ranges.
Structured references refer to a single
cell in a table are relative, and
structured references that refer to
entire column are more like mixed.
They remain absolute when you
drag your form is down, but
they're relative if you drag across.
>> So tables are a good idea for
storing and working with structured data.
But coming back to my original question,
how are they going to solve
our automation needs?
>> Well, that's the best bit.
When you add data directly underneath or
to the right of a table, it automatically
extends or grows to include that new data,
and all your formulas, your formatting,
your data validation, even your
conditional formatting extend with it.
And of course, so do your Named Ranges.
>> So that means a table basically
behaves like a dynamic Named Range, and
that any calculations referring
to those Named Ranges will
automatically pick up the new values.
>> Exactly.
And it works for charts too.
So as you add or
remove data from the table, any charts
looking at that data automatically adjust.
So the simple step of
converting your data to a table
totally automate your workbooks.
So tables are really important when you
start working with pivot tables, for
example.
And we look at those in the next course.
And when you get into more
advanced topics, like Power Pivot,
then you're really going
to need to use tables.
>> Really powerful stuff.
I'm sure our learners
can't wait to get started.
We have five great videos for you this
week that will cover the following topics,
creating, naming and removing tables,
formatting and selecting in tables,
sorting and filtering tables, performing
calculations with structured references,
and then automating processes with tables.
Don't forget to download
this week's workbooks, so
you can practice the skills as you go.
We've got the usual quizzes for
you to test your skills and
another great practice challenge.
Have fun with it.
And now, it's over to you.